# Phrasal Verbs

### 1. Aim At

To point at a specific target

*It is important to never aim at a person when at the gun range.*

### 2. Back Down

To surrender your claim or position

*Don't back down when he challenges you.*

### 3. Beef Up

To make better or bigger

*Let's beef up this resume to help Carter get a job.*

### 4. Blow Off

When the wind moves something from its original place

*Make sure the napkins don't blow off the table.*

### 5. Blow Out

To put out a flame

*I can't wait to blow out my birthday candles and make a wish.*

### 6. Boil Down To

To determine a specific conclusion or reasoning

*I think what it boils down to is her unwillingness to compromise.*

### 7. Break Down

When someone is mentally exhausted or frustrated

*All of these events happening at once has caused her to have a break down.*

### 8. Break Through

To create a path through

*You're going to have to break through this door to get inside the burning building.*

### 9. Break Up

To stop something from happening

*Officer Brown had to break up a fight at the high school.*

### 10. Bring Up

To carry or take something low to a higher place

*Can you bring up that table from downstairs?*

### 11. Brush Off

To get rid of with your hand

*Let's brush off that dirt on your pants and get going.*

### 12. Brush Up

To review a particular skill or piece of knowledge you haven't used in awhile

*Brush up on your dinosaur facts before we go to the museum.*

### 13. Build In/Into

To construct something in a certain place

*People often purchase homes with shelving that was built in.*

### 14. Burn Down

When fire is used to destroy something

*Why did they burn down the abandoned amusement park?*

### 15. Burn Up

To be destroyed with fire

*Burn up this wood in the fireplace to keep warm.*

### 16. Burst Out

To say something suddenly or out of the blue

*She burst out the answer before the class could figure it out.*

### 17. Butt In

To insert yourself into a conversation or event

*I hate to butt in on your conversation, but did you say something about dragons?*

### 18. Call Back

To call again

*Let me call you back after lunch.*

### 19. Call In

To request someone's presence

*I really hope they don't call me in to work on my day off.*

### 20. Care For

To be responsible for someone's wellbeing

*I will care for my sister's dog while she's away.*

### 21. Carry Away

To act on emotions when doing something

*Don't get too carried away decorating for Halloween.*

### 22. Carry On

To continue

*I could barely carry on after my husband's passing.*

### 23. Carry Out

To move from one place to another

*Let me carry this bag of ice out of here for you.*

### 24. Catch On

To eventually realize something

*Someday he'll catch on when his brother tells inappropriate jokes, but he's too young.*

### 25. Catch Up

To get closer to something that became far away

*We need to catch up to Larry's car.*

### 26. Chicken Out

To get too scared to do something

*We went zip lining, but Grace chickened out before it was her turn.*

### 27. Clear Up

To solve a misunderstanding or issue

*Jo thought I was mad, so I had to clear things up with her.*

### 28. Clog Up

To prevent something from coming through

*The accident clogged up the intersection.*

### 29. Close Off

To block something

*The cones on the road closed off one lane.*

### 30. Come About

To happen or occur

*How did this come about?*

### 31. Come Across

The way something is perceived; to move sides

*Come across the street to my house.*

### 32. Come Apart

To break into pieces

*The glue didn't hold, so her scrapbook started to come apart.*

### 33. Come Down To

To narrow down a situation

*It's come down to three contestants left.*

### 34. Come Down With

To become ill or experience symptoms of an illness

*Jay is starting to come down with a cold.*

### 35. Come Off

When something is removed; how something is perceived

*She can come off a little rude, but she means well.*

### 36. Come Through

To arrive expectedly; to cause a result

*I knew you would come through on your way to the city.*

### 37. Come Up With

To think of something

*We have to come up with a plan.*

### 38. Con Into

To deceptively convince someone to do something

*I got conned into driving everyone tonight.*

### 39. Con Out Of

To convince someone to give you something by lying

*Heather conned me out of my last piece of gum.*

### 40. Cross Off

To mark as complete

*I can cross washing my car off todays to do list.*

### 41. Cut Back

To reduce

*Dolly had to cut back on spending this month to save money for her trip.*

### 42. Cut Down

To lessen something

*I watched them cut down that giant tree in our neighborhood.*

### 43. Do Away With

To get rid of something

*How about we do away with her pacifier once she starts teething.*

### 44. Do Over

To do again in a better way

*Can I get a do over on that date?*

### 45. Do Without

To be fine without

*I could do without the yelling please.*

### 46. Doze Off

To fall asleep on accident

*Todd dozed off on the couch while watching football.*

### 47. Dress Up

To look good or more formal

*Let's dress up in costume for the party.*

### 48. Drop In

To come by unexpectedly

*I hope you don't mind that I dropped in while I was in the area.*

### 49. Dry Out

To take away all water or liquid

*We set the towels down to dry out.*

### 50. Eat Up

To consume all of

*Kenna told her to eat up her vegetables to get stronger.*

### 51. Empty Out

To remove all items from

*Empty out your backpack at the end of the year.*

### 52. End Up

The way something finishes

*Harold may end up at my place tomorrow.*

### 53. Fall Behind

To progress slower than the rest

*I started to fall behind in my classes.*

### 54. Fall Out

To drop down

*Make sure nothing fell out of the cart on our walk to the car.*

### 55. Fall Through

To be cancelled; to fail

*I hate it when plans fall through.*

### 56. Feel Up To

To feel well enough to participate

*Abby doesn't feel up to going out tonight after being sick this week.*

### 57. Fill Out

To complete or finish

*I will have you fill out this form before you go.*

### 58. Flip Out

To get uncontrollably angry

*After the week she's had, I don't blame her for flipping out when she came home to a mess.*

### 59. Follow Up

To do more investigating

*Please follow up with me after taking your medicine for two weeks.*

### 60. Get Along

To be able to do; to interact well with others

*He should get along fine.*

### 61. Get Back

To return somewhere

*Get back over here.*

### 62. Get Back To

To return an answer or fulfill a request

*I will get back to you first thing tomorrow with that.*

### 63. Get Behind

To support; to be slower than others

*Breakfast for dinner is something I can get behind.*

### 64. Get By

To survive; to pass

*Her dad barely makes enough for their family to get by.*

### 65. Get Over

To stop being upset about; to clear an obstacle

*I wasn't sure if he would get over that last hurdle.*

### 66. Get Through

To understand; to finish; to endure

*You will get through this semester I promise.*

### 67. Get Together

To meet up for a specific reason; to gather

*Let's get together this weekend for lunch.*

### 68. Give In

To accept defeat

*His mom was disappointed that he gave in to peer pressure.*

### 69. Give Out

To produce or distribute

*They're giving out coupons in the local newspaper.*

### 70. Go About

To act normally; to follow the correct process to get something done

*The news anchor advised us to go about our day as normal even with a criminal on the loose.*

### 71. Go After

To follow even if it's difficult

*Reba had to go after her dog when it escaped from her backyard.*

### 72. Go Along With

To agree with in order to avoid conflict

*Just go along with his plan so he doesn't freak out.*

### 73. Go Beyond

To do more than what is expected of you

*I commend your work; you always go beyond what I ask of you.*

### 74. Go Off

To express your anger verbally; to leave without warning; to leave the normal path

*Don't go off into the woods alone.*

### 75. Go With

To join; to combine; to match

*Those shoes don't go with that dress.*

### 76. Gross Out

To feel disgusted by something

*The smell of that trash is grossing me out.*

### 77. Hand Back

To return something after borrowing it

*Kyra handed the pencil back to me after her homework was finished.*

### 78. Hang Around

To be in a specific place for a period of time

*He hangs around the mall a lot.*

### 79. Hold Against

To refuse forgiving someone

*I hope you don't hold this against me, but I don't feel like going to the store with you.*

### 80. Hold Off

To delay or prevent something

*Why don't you hold off on mowing the lawn since it rained.*

### 81. Hurry Up

To quickly do something

*Hurry up with those burgers over there, we're starving!*

### 82. Keep At

To continue trying

*Keep at it, you'll succeed eventually.*

### 83. Keep Down

To minimize noise

*Keep it down up there we're trying to sleep.*

### 84. Keep Up

To continue taking care of or doing something

*Jenny is struggling to keep up with her garden.*

### 85. Kick Back

To hang out; to relax

*Let's kick back at the pool today.*

### 86. Knock Off

To cause something to fall or stop

*Knock it off boys, there's no reason to hit your brothers.*

### 87. Knock Out

To hit someone hard enough that they are unconscious; to be surprised

*That smile could knock a guy out.*

### 88. Lay Off

To cut an employee's job; to stop doing

*Lay off the chocolate son you're going to get a headache.*

### 89. Lead Up To

When a series of certain events cause something to happen or occur

*All of you hard work has been leading up to this moment.*

### 90. Leave Off

To not include something, whether it be on purpose or an accident

*Let's leave the Jones family off the guest list.*

### 91. Leave Out

To purposefully exclude

*Grace got left out of the plans for tonight because of the way she acted last time.*

### 92. Let Down

To disappoint; to make lower or longer

*Please don't let me down at the event this weekend.*

### 93. Let In

To allow; to invite

*After he burnt the chicken, we opened the window to let in some fresh air.*

### 94. Let On

To allude to

*Kayla let on that Jeremy doesn't really want to come tonight.*

### 95. Let Up

To ease up

*Don't let up on him, he deserves to be punished for wrecking the house.*

### 96. Lighten Up

To make less serious

*Oh, lighten up it was only a joke.*

### 97. Line Up

To create a row; to organize

*Line up at the end of the field, you boys are running.*

### 98. Lock In

To secure; to save; to keep at a specific level

*Let's lock in a date for vacation before our calendars fill up.*

### 99. Lock Up

To shut the doors or windows, to trap

*Please lock up before you leave.*

### 100. Look Down On

To believe you are better than someone or something

*Don't look down on me just because I'm younger than you.*

### 101. Look Forward To

To anticipate with excitement

*I look forward to meeting you soon.*

### 102. Look Into

To investigate further

*Police are still looking into the disappearance.*

### 103. Look Out

To stay alert; to do a favor for someone

*Thanks for looking out for me, I wouldn't have made it through school without you.*

### 104. Look Over

To examine

*Let's look over these papers together.*

### 105. Look Up To

To respect or revere someone

*I look up to him as the father I never had.*

### 106. Luck Out

To unexpectedly experience luck

*I guess we lucked out this time finding a parking spot near the front.*

### 107. Make Up

To create a story; to do something that is better than what you missed out on

*That didn't happen, you're making that up.*

### 108. Mess Up

To be unorganized; to ruin

*You messed up my hair.*

### 109. Mix Up

To combine; to confuse; to upgrade or change

*Can you mix up the batter for me while I make the frosting?*

### 110. Monkey Around With

To mess around; to be silly

*That's enough monkeying around with your brothers.*

### 111. Narrow Down

To reduce your options

*Please narrow down the lunch options to two restaurants.*

### 112. Pay Back

To return money that you owe; to reciprocate

*I will pay you back when I find my wallet.*

### 113. Pay Up

To give all the money you owe

*You are required to pay two months' rent up before moving day.*

### 114. Pay Off

To repay; to give money in exchange for secrecy; to be rewarded for hard work

*Hard work pays off.*

### 115. Pick On

To tease or bully

*Those kids always pick on my son.*

### 116. Pile Up

To place or be in a pile

*That trash is really piling up.*

### 117. Piss Off

To make someone angry

*You better take your shoes off inside the house before you piss off your mom.*

### 118. Plan On

To have the intention of doing

*I plan on being there around noon.*

### 119. Plug In

To connect to electricity

*My phone was about to die so I had to plug it in.*

### 120. Point Out

To bring attention to

*You didn't have to point out the pimple on my chin, I know it's there.*

### 121. Print Out

To create a paper copy

*Can you print out that flyer?*

### 122. Pull Off

To do successfully

*I can't believe they pulled off the surprise.*

### 123. Pull Over

To drive onto the side of the road and stop

*The cops had her pull over because she had a taillight out.*

### 124. Pull Through

To recover; to continue through difficulty

*Let's just pull through to the next parking spot.*

### 125. Punch In

To record time

*I punched in to work at 6 o'clock in the morning every day this week.*

### 126. Put Away

To hide something in a specific place

*Put those toys away before someone trips on one of them.*

### 127. Put Back

To return to its original place; to postpone

*Put that broom back after you use it.*

### 128. Put In

To place inside; to install; to contribute money

*Put those groceries in the refrigerator please.*

### 129. Put Together

To assemble; to plan; to position close together

*We can put together her dresser later today.*

### 130. Put Up With

To tolerate something that you don't necessarily like

*I put up with a lot in my last relationship.*

### 131. Ring Up

To call on the phone; to add up the total cost at a register

*The grocery clerk offered to ring us up on the register she just opened.*

### 132. Rip Off

To be asked to pay too much for something; to remove something from where it was using force

*Just rip off the band aid, it will only hurt for a second.*

### 133. Rip Up

To tear into pieces; to remove something off of a specific surface

*We had to rip up the carpet in the house we were fixing up.*

### 134. Rule Out

To eliminate as possible

*They ruled him out as a suspect after his alibi checked out.*

### 135. Run Across

To move from one side to another

*The fox ran across the road.*

### 136. Run Around

To go from place to place quickly; to play while running

*I have been running around town all day.*

### 137. Run Down

To gradually get worse; to explain a plan; to quickly get lower

*Let me give you the run down of the night before we leave.*

### 138. Run Into

When two objects accidentally hit each other; to see someone you know unexpectedly; to have unexpected issues; to go inside quickly

*Can you run into the store and grab some apples for me please?*

### 139. Run Over

To be injured by a car; to practice all the way through; to continue past the allotted time; to explain again; to have too much liquid inside

*Football practice always runs over after a loss.*

### 140. Screw On

To seal a container's lid; to connect parts with a screw

*Screw that lid on tight or you'll spill your drink.*

### 141. Screw Up

To make a mess of something

*I screwed up the date by talking about myself too much.*

### 142. See About

To look into doing something

*Let's see about getting an extra bag of ice for the party.*

### 143. Sell Out

To be rid of all available inventory; to give up your morals when doing something

*We better get there early before the tickets sell out.*

### 144. Settle Down

To start living routinely with more stability; to relax

*Settle down before you get the dogs riled up.*

### 145. Shake Up

Shaking to mix something; to upset someone

*Shake up the orange juice before drinking it.*

### 146. Show Off

To display something in a large way

*He came by to show off his new truck.*

### 147. Shut Up

To not talk

*My mom shouting at us is a great way to get us to shut up.*

### 148. Sign In

To write your name down with the time and date you arrived; to input a username and password online

*We had to sign in at the front office before the doctor would see us.*

### 149. Sign Out

To signify your departure by signing your name and the date; to exit online

*Be sure to sign out of your account on the library computer so that no one can access your information.*

### 150. Sit Down

To start sitting; to assist someone in sitting

*Please, sit down you've been on your feet all day.*

### 151. Slow Down

To start being slower

*Slow down I can't understand what you're saying when you talk that fast.*

### 152. Sneak In/Into

To go inside somewhere without being detected

*Sneak into the back pew, we're late and don't want to disturb the service.*

### 153. Sneak Out

To leave without being detected

*Let's sneak out tonight and go to the club.*

### 154. Sort Out

To resolve a misunderstanding; to place things into specific groups

*Paul wants to sort out the details before we leave for the trip.*

### 155. Space Out

To gravitate your attention elsewhere; to not focus on what's around you

*I'm so tired that I keep spacing out and not hearing what she said to me.*

### 156. Stand Around

To gather in one area instead of doing what you need to

*Quit standing around, we've got housework to do!*

### 157. Stand For

To back up or support

*The school won't stand for bullying of any kind.*

### 158. Start Off

To begin; to have intentions to do something

*Jacob started off the weekend by sleeping in until noon.*

### 159. Start Up

To begin something; to make it work

*Start up the car, I will be outside in a second.*

### 160. Stay Out

To leave your home; to not go inside; to remain uninvolved

*We wanted to stay out past midnight but got too tired.*

### 161. Stay Up

To be above level ground; to be awake longer than usual

*Don't stay up too late, you have school in the morning.*

### 162. Step On

To move quickly; to place your foot

*They're coming after us, so step on the gas!*

### 163. Stick Around

To remain in one place for a while

*We better stick around for a bit after your grandmother's surgery.*

### 164. Stick Out

To extend outward; to be recognized; to persevere

*It's only a few more weeks, just stick it out.*

### 165. Stick Up

To put something where it can be seen more easily; to stand out from the group

*Your hair is all brushed and smooth besides one little piece that's sticking up over here.*

### 166. Stick With

To continue; to stay loyal; to endure an uncomfortable situation or person

*They always stick us good kids with the troublemakers.*

### 167. Stop Over

To visit for a moment; to stop quickly

*Can you stop over at the store for some milk before you get home?*

### 168. Straighten Out

To make straight; to fix an issue; to make someone's attitude or behavior better

*Let's straighten her out before the big day.*

### 169. Switch Off

To turn something previously on to be off

*Switch off the oven once you're done baking, so it doesn't start a fire.*

### 170. Switch On

To turn something previously off to be on

*Switch on those lights, it's way too dark in here.*

### 171. Take Apart

To disassemble or separate

*We have to take apart the giant bookshelves to get them inside the building.*

### 172. Take Out

To remove; to withdraw money; to pay for a dinner, bowling, etc., to murder

*I had to take out $300 for the fair this weekend.*

### 173. Take Up On

To accept an invitation or offer

*My night just freed up, so I will take you up on those tacos.*

### 174. Talk Down To

To talk to someone as if you are better and/or smarter than them

*Frank always talks down to her when he's explaining something.*

### 175. Talk Into

To convince

*I won't let you talk me into buying anything else today.*

### 176. Talk Out Of

To convince someone against something

*Nothing will talk her out of getting this tattoo.*

### 177. Talk To

To converse with someone

*Jackie will talk to him about borrowing the car tomorrow.*

### 178. Tear Down

To destroy physical or mentally

*They tore down the old spaghetti factory last year.*

### 179. Tear Off

To remove forcefully

*Nikki tore off a piece of chicken.*

### 180. Tell Apart

To differentiate

*The Hollow twins are too similar, I can't tell them apart.*

### 181. Tell On

To inform someone of something that happened but was not supposed to

*Poppy told on her brother after he broke their mom's vase.*

### 182. Think About

To ponder something before it happens; to have on your mind

*Julia can't stop thinking about her date on Friday.*

### 183. Think Ahead

To plan for the future

*Luckily, mom thought ahead for the boat trip and brought plenty of snacks and drinks.*

### 184. Think Up

To come up with an idea using your imagination

*I could never think up a movie like The Matrix on my own.*

### 185. Throw Away

To get rid of

*He threw those old muffins away once they started going bad.*

### 186. Track Down

To seek out and find

*It took forever to track down a copy of her new book, but I finally got one.*

### 187. Trade In

To exchange an old item for something new

*My dad traded in his old truck to the dealership, then bought a nicer one.*

### 188. Trick Into

To persuade using dishonesty

*Josh tricked me into coming with him.*

### 189. Try On

To see how something fits on your body before buying it

*You better try those shorts on to make sure they fit correctly.*

### 190. Try Out

To demonstrate a specific skill; to test something

*I want to try out that new Mexican restaurant in town.*

### 191. Turn Down

To refuse an offer; to decrease something

*Please turn down the radio, I am trying to talk on the phone.*

### 192. Turn Off

To stop from being on; to offend or cause someone to lose interest

*Someone being lazy is such a turn off, I prefer a hardworking man.*

### 193. Turn On

To stop from being off; to entice or cause attraction; to suddenly become against someone

*I never expected the butler to turn on the family after all of his years of service.*

### 194. Turn Over

To flip to the other side; to pass on authority duties; to replace continuously

*After 25 years as HOA President, Bob turned over his duties to a younger member of the neighborhood.*

### 195. Turn Up

To increase volume; to be found; to learn though research

*That missing vehicle is bound to turn up somewhere.*

### 196. Use Up

To exhaust the resources of something

*Did you use up the last of the peanut butter yesterday?*

### 197. Wake Up

To clean using water

To finish sleeping; to become aware

*Hannah was supposed to wake up at 6 am, but she slept until noon.*

### 198. Wash Off

*After we went hiking in the rain, I had to wash off my boots with the hose.*

### 199. Wash Up

To clean yourself; to be carried ashore by water; to no longer be of any use

*You and your brothers need to go wash up before dinner.*

### 200. Watch Out

To be cautious of something happening

*Watch out for deer when driving in the country at night.*