# Words

# CELPIP Vocabulary - 200 Words

## 1. Abrupt

**Adjective**

- Sudden; out of the blue
- Example: The meeting ended abruptly because of the boss's family emergency.
- Appearing unkind or rude because you are in a hurry
- Example: Sorry I rushed our conversation; I wasn't trying to be abrupt.

## 2. Extraordinary

**Adjective**

- Not typical; special
- Example: The view from up here is extraordinary.
- Surprising; not expected
- Example: That project took an extraordinary amount of work.

## 3. Utter

**Adjective / Verb**

- (adj) Emphasis on something that is particularly bad
- Example: This calculus problem has left me in a state of utter confusion.
- (verb) To use your voice
- Example: She was so shocked that she couldn't even utter a single word.

## 4. Absurd

**Adjective**

- Especially ridiculous
- Example: Her idea was simply absurd.

## 5. Partial

**Adjective**

- Incomplete; not whole
- Example: She only offered a partial solution to selling more merchandise.

## 6. Robust

**Adjective**

- Extremely strong and sturdy
- Example: The bridge's structure is very robust.

## 7. Superb

**Adjective**

- Above average; very good
- Example: That vacation was superb.

## 8. Vicious

**Adjective**

- Purposely harmful or violent
- Example: The wild dog was very vicious.

## 9. Supreme

**Adjective**

- The best or greatest
- Example: In my mind, chocolate ice cream reigns supreme.

## 10. Verbal

**Adjective**

- Using words as opposed to writing
- Example: She gave her verbal agreement to seeing a movie tonight.

## 11. Authentic

**Adjective**

- The original or equally as genuine as it
- Example: He won an award for creating the most authentic representation of the artist's work.

## 12. Eligible

**Adjective**

- Able or permitted to do something
- Example: They will be eligible for parole after serving 10 years in prison.

## 13. Superficial

**Adjective**

- Surface level; shallow
- Example: Chloe's actions revealed her superficial attitude and values.

## 14. Vague

**Adjective**

- Unclear; little to no details
- Example: The assignment's instructions were vague.

## 15. Amateur

**Noun**

- Beginner; not a professional
- Example: Tony signed up for his college's amateur tennis team.

## 16. Delicate

**Adjective**

- Easily breakable
- Example: Grandma's pottery is very delicate, so we aren't allowed to touch them.

## 17. Rash

**Adjective**

- Quick, unwise decision-making
- Example: Her decision to drop out of college seemed rash.

## 18. Swift

**Adjective**

- Completed quickly
- Example: The board was erased in one swift movement.

## 19. Vocal

**Adjective / Noun**

- (adj) Verbally expressive
- Example: Amanda is very vocal about community issues.
- (noun) Music that involves the voice
- Example: Mrs. Plum teaches vocal music at Parker Elementary School.

## 20. Brisk

**Adjective**

- Quickly with energy
- Example: It started raining while Isaac was taking a brisk walk.

## 21. Deliberate

**Adjective / Verb**

- (adj) Purposeful; a planned action
- Example: Her punishment was deliberate.
- (verb) To plan or discuss
- Example: They used the meeting to deliberate whether or not to fire Pam.

## 22. Efficient

**Adjective**

- The quickest and best possible way
- Example: She was in search of the most efficient way to organize her files.

## 23. Tremendous

**Adjective**

- Extremely or very good
- Example: That required a tremendous amount of work.

## 24. Vital

**Adjective / Noun**

- (adj) Essential; crucial
- Example: It is of vital importance that we complete our homework on time.
- (noun) Having to do with the body's internal organs
- Example: The nurse checked his vitals.

## 25. Artificial

**Adjective**

- Unnatural; made to look like something else
- Example: There are way too many artificial sweeteners in this drink.

## 26. Legitimate

**Adjective / Verb**

- (adj) Legally accepted
- Example: That is a legitimate source.
- (verb) To make legal
- Example: This document has yet to be legitimized.

## 27. Rigorous

**Adjective**

- Complex; detailed; severe
- Example: Calculus 4 is a rigorous course.

## 28. Scarce

**Adjective / Adverb**

- (adj) Difficult to acquire
- Example: During a drought, water is very scarce.
- (adverb) Barely
- Example: I could scarce take the intense criticism.

## 29. Vivid

**Adjective**

- Detailed; brightly colored
- Example: The painting was very vivid.

## 30. Vulnerable

**Adjective**

- Easily harmed or in danger
- Example: We must protect the minds of the vulnerable youth.

## 31. Vast

**Adjective**

- Especially large
- Example: A vast majority of people prefer mountains over the beach.

## 32. Magnificent

**Adjective**

- Awe inspiring; admirable
- Example: The sunset is magnificent.

## 33. Apparent

**Adjective**

- Obvious; easily seen
- Example: Her feelings were very apparent on her face.

## 34. Antique

**Noun / Adjective**

- (noun) An item from an earlier period of time
- Example: My great grandma's dresser is an antique.
- (adj) Made in a different time period
- Example: Jordan has a large amount of antique jewelry.

## 35. Compact

**Adjective / Noun**

- (adj) Fashioned in a tidy way with little space
- Example: The apartment's layout is very compact.
- (noun) A small, flat makeup case
- Example: Check that purse for her compact.

## 36. Substantial

**Adjective**

- Significant in size or importance
- Example: There is substantial evidence that points to him being the killer.

## 37. Toxic

**Adjective**

- Harmful
- Example: Mr. Holland warned us that the chemicals were toxic.

## 38. Unanimous

**Adjective**

- All individuals agree about a certain issue
- Example: The vote to remove her from the committee was unanimous.

## 39. Ample

**Adjective**

- Sufficient; plenty
- Example: You must provide ample evidence of the occurrence.

## 40. Bizarre

**Adjective**

- Strange; odd; unusual
- Example: Her outfit is so bizarre.

## 41. Moderate

**Adjective / Noun / Verb**

- (adj) Medium in size
- Example: The company is experiencing moderate growth.
- (noun) A person with neutral opinions
- Example: People of any political affiliation can appreciate a moderate.
- (verb) To keep a specific standard
- Example: Susan is expected to moderate the exam.

## 42. Particular

**Adjective**

- A certain one
- Example: My mom asked me to get a particular kind of milk, but I can't remember which one it was.

## 43. Prompt

**Verb / Adjective / Noun / Adverb**

- (verb) To cause something
- Example: What prompted you to get a puppy?
- (adj) Completed in a timely manner
- Example: I expect a prompt reply.
- (noun) A sign to act upon
- Example: The actor's prompt reminded him of his lines.
- (adverb) A time constraint
- Example: The meeting ended promptly at 4 o'clock.

## 44. Rapid

**Adjective / Noun**

- (adj) Acting quickly or swiftly
- Example: Get this done rapidly.
- (noun) A fast stream of water within a river
- Example: The fish were swimming by and jumping out of the rapids.

## 45. Subtle

**Adjective**

- Blending in but still holding a certain importance
- Example: There was a subtle difference between the two drafts.

## 46. Applaud

**Verb**

- To clap; hitting your palms together
- Example: I have to applaud you on all of your hard work.

## 47. Rehearse

**Verb**

- To practice before a performance or speech
- Example: The band chose to rehearse one last time before the concert.

## 48. Guilt

**Noun**

- Feeling responsible for an unfortunate event
- Example: After sneaking out of the house, Nicole felt extreme guilt.

## 49. Verdict

**Noun**

- An official result or outcome
- Example: What's the final verdict?

## 50. Condemn

**Verb**

- Disapprove; to be strongly against
- Example: There are many laws that condemn that sort of behavior.

## 51. Smuggle

**Verb**

- To secretly obtain something
- Example: We smuggled snacks into the movie theater.

## 52. Cautious

**Adjective**

- Avoiding risks and potential harm
- Example: My sister is a cautious driver.

## 53. Envy

**Verb**

- To want something someone else has
- Example: I envy her ability to sing.

## 54. Fond

**Adjective**

- Showing a liking to
- Example: She is very fond of this game.

## 55. Coward

**Noun**

- A person who lacks bravery or courage
- Example: Kaleb wouldn't eat a ghost pepper, he's too much of a coward.

## 56. Dread

**Verb**

- To not look forward to doing something
- Example: I always dread going to the dentist.

## 57. Generous

**Adjective**

- Happy and willing to give back time and resources
- Example: The Humane Society relies on generous donors to stay open.

## 58. Boast

**Verb**

- To brag; to talk proudly about yourself
- Example: I don't mean to boast, I'm just proud of how far I've come.

## 59. Sophisticated

**Adjective**

- Having a lot of experience and knowledge; advanced
- Example: The Queen of England has a very sophisticated way of life.

## 60. Stubborn

**Adjective**

- Not easily persuaded; stuck in a specific mindset
- Example: What made you so stubborn?

## 61. Admire

**Verb**

- To respect someone because of the things they've done or the way they act
- Example: I admire you for your patience.

## 62. Cruel

**Adjective**

- Being unkind on purpose
- Example: Don't be cruel.

## 63. Detest

**Verb**

- To largely dislike
- Example: After their fight, Romeo detests Juliet.

## 64. Elegant

**Adjective**

- Simply beautiful; timeless
- Example: The wedding turned out very elegant and amazing.

## 65. Modest

**Adjective**

- Moderate; not drawing attention
- Example: Her style tends to be very modest.

## 66. Relief

**Noun**

- A feeling of easement; an alleviation
- Example: Mallory uttered a sigh of relief once her exam was over.

## 67. Bitter

**Adjective**

- Generally unhappy or unpleasant
- Example: Ronald is the bitter old man that lives across the street.

## 68. Bland

**Adjective**

- Lacking taste or anything special
- Example: The sandwich was a little bland.

## 69. Fatigue

**Noun**

- Immense tired feeling
- Example: After working a 12-hour shift, the nurse was filled with fatigue.

## 70. Immune

**Adjective**

- Unaffected by a problem, illness, or occurrence
- Example: Luna hopes to be immune to the disease after enduring it once.

## 71. Paralyze

**Verb**

- To cause a person or object to be immoveable
- Example: The haunted house paralyzed her with fear.

## 72. Appetite

**Noun**

- The amount of desire for a specific food or activity
- Example: He has an appetite for waffles every morning.

## 73. Conscious

**Adjective**

- Able to understand what is going on around you; mentally aware
- Example: Be conscious of how your words might affect her.

## 74. Diagnose

**Verb**

- To determine the cause or reason something happened; examine to find the cause of an illness
- Example: It took a very long time to diagnose the issue.

## 75. Fatal

**Adjective**

- Detrimental to someone's health and wellbeing
- Example: Polly called to tell us she survived the fatal car crash.

## 76. Sanitary

**Adjective**

- Clean; no threat to anyone's health
- Example: The cabins were kept in sanitary condition.

## 77. Dose

**Noun**

- An amount of something to be administered or required
- Example: The doctor made sure to administer the correct dose of morphine.

## 78. Slender

**Adjective**

- Thin and long
- Example: The model has a slender figure.

## 79. Suffer

**Verb**

- To be in pain mentally or physically
- Example: Following her passing, we were comforted in that she would no longer suffer.

## 80. Trauma

**Noun**

- A scarring experience that can have a long-term effect on your mental state, physical injury
- Example: Head traumas are very serious and require immediate medical attention.

## 81. Executive

**Noun / Adjective**

- (noun) A person of importance within an organization; the one in charge
- Example: The chief executive of Wonder Inc. contacted us last week.
- (adj) Dealing with the management of an organization
- Example: The meeting will be held in our executive conference room.

## 82. Import

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A product sent from one country into another to be sold
- Example: Ships were arriving with a large supply of imports.
- (verb) To bring something into a place it hasn't been brought before
- Example: They imported goods from Europe.

## 83. Affiliate

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) Having and maintaining a connection
- Example: May no longer affiliates herself with that church.
- (noun) An entity that is connected with or run by another
- Example: After the deal was signed, affiliates of the restaurant were expected to aid in the growth process.

## 84. Ambition

**Noun**

- An intense desire to get something done
- Example: Her young heart was full of ambition.

## 85. Manufacture

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To mass produce materials or finished goods
- Example: Nelli Industries plans to manufacture a large amount of dog toys this year.
- (noun) The making of goods using a machine
- Example: Stacey focused on the advantages of better food manufacture.

## 86. Prosper

**Verb**

- To grow or experience great success
- Example: The began to prosper under new leadership.

## 87. Surplus

**Noun / Adjective**

- (noun) An amount of something that is more than what is needed
- Example: The company experienced a surplus of goods after sales declined unexpectedly.
- (adj) More than necessary
- Example: Countries in need do not have surplus food.

## 88. Venture

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A new activity having to do with business risks
- Example: Tanner Co. is planning a new business venture.
- (verb) To stray from the normal way
- Example: It is a bad idea to venture off the hiking path.

## 89. Exchange

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) The gift of goods or words between people
- Example: Our Christmas party always involves a gift exchange.
- (verb) To give something to someone and receive something back
- Example: We exchanged a few choice words.

## 90. Valuable

**Adjective**

- Important; worth a lot
- Example: Don't lose track of those valuable jewels.

## 91. Afford

**Verb**

- To have enough money; to allow or supply
- Example: Laura couldn't afford a new car.

## 92. Commute

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To travel
- Example: I am looking forward to the commute to the beach.
- (noun) A specific route or distance
- Example: It is a long commute to work every morning.

## 93. Deduct

**Verb**

- To subtract; to remove a part of something
- Example: That penalty deducted two points from their score.

## 94. Negotiate

**Verb**

- To talk to someone in attempt to persuade or come to an agreement
- Example: Negotiate a new deal for us please.

## 95. Shortage

**Noun**

- When there is not enough of something
- Example: The United States is currently experiencing a refrigerator shortage.

## 96. Enterprise

**Noun**

- A large company or activity
- Example: Stark Enterprise is rising in the marketing industry.

## 97. Inherit

**Verb**

- To get something from someone
- Example: Ella inherited her father's old truck after he passed.

## 98. Transaction

**Noun**

- A business procedure in which items or money are exchanged
- Example: He prepared a statement for their transaction.

## 99. Appoint

**Verb**

- To choose or arrange for something to happen
- Example: We appointed her as leader of the group.

## 100. Fare

**Noun**

- Something offered or paid
- Example: The taxi fare was much cheaper than I expected.

## 101. Possess

**Verb**

- To have or to own
- Example: Allison possesses the skills to create a beautiful work of art.

## 102. Supervise

**Verb**

- To be the head of something; in charge of overseeing activities
- Example: Mom told me we need a babysitter to supervise us for the night.

## 103. Abundant

**Adjective**

- A large amount of something
- Example: New students are in abundant supply.

## 104. Erupt

**Verb**

- To suddenly explode or break out
- Example: The crowd erupted into laughter.

## 105. Instinct

**Noun**

- A natural likelihood to behave a certain way
- Example: Luckily, she has good instincts.

## 106. Shallow

**Adjective**

- Occurring a small distance from the top
- Example: Don't worry the water is shallow here.

## 107. Fluid

**Noun / Adjective**

- (noun) A liquid substance
- Example: My car is leaking fluid.
- (adj) Flexible; easily changed
- Example: These plans are very fluid.

## 108. Marine

**Adjective / Noun**

- (adj) Having to do with the ocean or water
- Example: I used to have dreams of becoming a marine biologist.
- (noun) A soldier who sails boats
- Example: He served as in the US Marine Corps for several years.

## 109. Universe

**Noun**

- Our world; an area of space
- Example: These are the best cookies in the universe.

## 110. Coast

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) The place that the ocean meets the land
- Example: Let's visit the Pacific coast.
- (verb) To move without effort
- Example: This class isn't one you can just coast through.

## 111. Catastrophe

**Noun**

- A disaster; an unfortunate event
- Example: That party was a catastrophe.

## 112. Decay

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To be destroyed over time, naturally or on purpose
- Example: After death, the body begins to decay.
- (noun) An item in a state of destruction
- Example: The dentist pointed out his tooth decay.

## 113. Extinct

**Adjective**

- Something that no longer exists
- Example: If we aren't careful, many endangered animals will become extinct.

## 114. Harbour

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A place where the water is calm enough for ships to be stored
- Example: There are at least twenty ships parked at the harbour.
- (verb) To hold onto negativity for a long period of time
- Example: Try not to harbour any hate for your cousin, he was just doing his best.

## 115. Batch

**Noun**

- A group or set of specific items
- Example: I just made a fresh batch of cookies!

## 116. Privilege

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) An advantage you are lucky to have
- Example: That phone is a privilege, not a right.
- (verb) Giving someone or something better treatment
- Example: His mom continues to privilege him by doing all of his laundry.

## 117. Sensation

**Noun**

- The feeling something or someone provides
- Example: Grace began to feel a tingling sensation in her legs after sitting for too long.

## 118. Situation

**Noun**

- A group of specific conditions that occur at once
- Example: This is a sticky situation.

## 119. Tactic

**Noun**

- A specific way of achieving something
- Example: What's the best note-taking tactic.

## 120. Texture

**Noun**

- The way something feels
- Example: This brownie has a funny texture.

## 121. Aftermath

**Noun**

- Period after an event occurs
- Example: The aftermath of the hurricane is devastating.

## 122. Quality

**Noun / Adjective**

- (noun) The standard of how good or bad something is
- Example: Please use high quality materials on this project.
- (adj) Especially good
- Example: Quality burgers are being sold downtown.

## 123. Reputation

**Noun**

- A person's appearance from others' point of view based on actions
- Example: She has a reputation for being easily convincible.

## 124. Stake

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A wooden rod or post
- Example: The tent had so many stakes holding it in the ground, but it still blew away.
- (verb) To place value in or on something as a risk
- Example: I would stake my reputation on it.

## 125. Collision

**Noun**

- An accident involving a crash of two items
- Example: She survived a head-on collision.

## 126. Basis

**Noun**

- Facts that something is backed up with or built upon
- Example: We are on a first-name basis.

## 127. Fixture

**Noun**

- A permanent piece of equipment or furniture
- Example: The bench dedicated to John Doe after his passing is a fixture of the area.

## 128. Hazard

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) Something deemed to be unsafe or harmful
- Example: Gasoline next to an open flame is a fire hazard.
- (verb) To give something a go
- Example: If I had to venture a guess, I would say you've never been to this club before.

## 129. Summit

**Noun**

- Peak; an important meeting
- Example: The European summit is set to occur in May this year.

## 130. Temper

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) Easily angered individual
- Example: Polly is very hot tempered.
- (verb) To lessen the severity
- Example: The hot peppers were tempered by ranch.

## 131. Access

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) The permission to do a specific action
- Example: The top-secret lab has limited access.
- (verb) To find or acquire
- Example: A password is needed to access those files.

## 132. Outline

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A plan with the main points, excluding many details
- Example: The professor required us to write an outline of the paper before we began.
- (verb) To sketch around an edge; to generally describe without details
- Example: I outlined the story instead of giving all of the tiny details.

## 133. Paste

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To place something on with glue
- Example: I pasted the magazine cutouts onto my art project.
- (noun) A mixture that can be spread and used to attach something
- Example: Elmer's makes a famous paste.

## 134. Slump

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To fall or lean due to a lack of strength
- Example: He slumped against the wall after she rejected her.
- (noun) A sudden decrease
- Example: Tammy's softball team has been in a slump for months now.

## 135. Discipline

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A way to correct behaviors and train new ones
- Example: My mom had to buy a book about discipline for kids who are strong-willed.
- (verb) To punish bad behaviors
- Example: I was left to discipline Henry after he threw food at the television.

## 136. Scrap

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A small piece of something
- Example: Can I have a scrap of paper to write down your email?
- (verb) To get rid of
- Example: Let's scrap that idea.

## 137. Stroll

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To walk slowly
- Example: Grandma and I strolled in the park this evening.
- (noun) A slow walk
- Example: Beth took a morning stroll to start her day.

## 138. Appeal

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) An urgent attempt to acquire something
- Example: May I make an appeal to the court?
- (verb) To make a formal statement as a request
- Example: I appealed to his kindness when asking for a raise.

## 139. Concern

**Noun**

- A worried feeling
- Example: Rene felt her brother's odd behavior was cause for concern.

## 140. Groan

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To make a sound signaling distress, disgust, discomfort, or another negative feeling
- Example: She groaned with disgust.
- (noun) A sound made when someone is upset or unsatisfied
- Example: Todd let out a groan as his team kept losing the game.

## 141. Mention

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To bring up or write something without details
- Example: I forgot to mention my fear of spiders.
- (noun) A direct reference
- Example: Haley earned an honorable mention for her academic performance.

## 142. Scrape

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To get rid of using a sharp edge
- Example: Scrape your plate off before you put it in the dishwasher.
- (noun) A small wound caused by something sharp or rough
- Example: How did you get that scrape on your knee?

## 143. Delight

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A general feeling of pleasure or enjoyment
- Example: What a delight she is!
- (verb) To create a feeling of satisfaction
- Example: I would be delighted to meet your parents.

## 144. Gaze

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To look at something from afar for a long period of time, stare
- Example: Sara gazed across the room.
- (noun) A long, unchanging look
- Example: We stared off into the distance for a while until he met my gaze.

## 145. Pressure

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) An attempt to influence someone else using persuasion or threats
- Example: The athletes felt an immense amount of pressure from their fans.
- (verb) To try and convince someone to do something because they should
- Example: Don't feel pressured to try this cake, it's a new recipe.

## 146. Rival

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) An opposing person or group in competition
- Example: Our hometown has a game against their rivals this weekend.
- (verb) To level up to; become as good as
- Example: No movie could rival the new IT.

## 147. Surface

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) The top level only; not deep
- Example: Their relationship is nothing but surface level.
- (verb) To bring about; make easier to notice
- Example: New information about the famous cold case has recently surfaced.

## 148. Escort

**Verb**

- To accompany someone to a specific place, guide
- Example: Let me escort you to the door.

## 149. Growl

**Verb**

- A long deep snarl sound
- Example: Zeus growled at me when I tried to pet him.

## 150. Launch

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To cause the start of something large or important
- Example: The rocket launched at noon.
- (noun) The release of a new product or event
- Example: Her book launch was very successful, she sold over 200 copies.

## 151. Position

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) How someone is placed either physically or figuratively
- Example: This decision has put her in a difficult position.
- (verb) To place in a specific fashion
- Example: Braden positioned the gun in the best way to shoot the target.

## 152. Review

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) When a situation or idea is closely examined
- Example: Professor Dunn gave us a super long math review.
- (verb) To reexamine; look at again for clarity or improvement
- Example: Please review these documents before we send them to our client.

## 153. Support

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To provide evidence or assistance; to agree
- Example: That beam supports the structure of the house.
- (noun) Assistance or encouragement
- Example: I will offer my support.

## 154. Wreck

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To ruin something
- Example: Why did you wreck my office?
- (noun) An event in which something sustains a large amount of damage
- Example: This day is a complete wreck.

## 155. Delay

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) Something that causes someone to wait; the time required to wait
- Example: The Chiefs game is experiencing a rain delay.
- (verb) To cause something to take longer
- Example: Please don't delay the meeting.

## 156. Filter

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) Something used to only allow certain materials through
- Example: You need a coffee filter, so the grounds don't get into the mug.
- (verb) To remove unwanted materials
- Example: Please filter these pictures from old to new.

## 157. Limp

**Adjective / Verb / Noun**

- (adj) Flimsy or weak
- Example: Starting a job interview with a limp handshake is not a good idea.
- (verb) To walk unsteadily due to an injury
- Example: The dog was limping after it was attacked by a coyote.
- (noun) A difficulty walking
- Example: After the accident, Jonah now walks with a limp.

## 158. Plague

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) An incurable, easily spreadable disease
- Example: The Bubonic Plague was a terrible tragedy in Europe.
- (verb) To inflict pain or trouble
- Example: Destiny was plagued with hearing problems her entire life.

## 159. Yield

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To produce
- Example: This recipe yields 4 servings.
- (noun) The amount produced
- Example: This year's yield doubled.

## 160. Burden

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) Something especially hard
- Example: Don't ever feel like a burden.
- (verb) To be given something difficult
- Example: I would hate to burden you with this task.

## 161. Switch

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To change from one thing to another
- Example: She switched places with Nicole at the last second.
- (noun) A change
- Example: Let's go ahead and make the switch from the old system.

## 162. Bundle

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A group of items that are connected or belong together
- Example: What a pretty bundle of flowers.
- (verb) To push together quickly
- Example: She bundled up the papers and threw them in the trash.

## 163. Fragment

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A piece of something
- Example: Honey, that fragment of a blanket needs to be thrown away.
- (verb) To break into smaller parts
- Example: That mess needs to be fragmented into groups before we can work on it.

## 164. Permit

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To let happen; allow
- Example: You are no longer permitted on this property
- (noun) A statement granting access or giving the right to do something
- Example: Do you have a permit to drive?

## 165. Sacrifice

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A decision to give up something to gain something else
- Example: Mom made the tough sacrifice of missing her favorite show to be here.
- (verb) To give up something of importance for something even more significant
- Example: The soldiers sacrificed their lives to protect our freedom.

## 166. Shock

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A state of being surprised or stunned
- Example: It was a huge shock to everyone that she chose to attend Missouri State.
- (verb) To be surprised or shocked by something
- Example: I was absolutely shocked to hear of his sudden passing.

## 167. Smash

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To violently break or hit something
- Example: Please don't smash this vase it was my grandmother's.
- (noun) The sound made when something breaks
- Example: Jacob heard the smash of glass blocks away from the car accident.

## 168. Decrease

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To become less
- Example: Let's decrease our carbon footprint by at least 3% this year.
- (noun) The amount by which something reduces
- Example: Pemberton Industries has experienced a significant decrease in sales recently.

## 169. Influence

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) The power to cause change to someone or something else
- Example: Darcy isn't the bet influence on you, she smokes cigarettes.
- (verb) To indirectly affect how someone or something acts
- Example: Don't let per pressure influence you into making a bad decision.

## 170. Humour

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) Something funny; a quality that makes people laugh
- Example: That movie wasn't really my kind of humour.
- (verb) To pretend to like doing something to please someone else
- Example: My grandma always tells us to humour her and try new things even when we aren't sure we'll like them.

## 171. Preview

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A viewing of something before it is public
- Example: The exclusive movie preview was successful.
- (verb) To see before anyone else
- Example: Shawn will preview his latest album in August.

## 172. Service

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) The help or assistance offered
- Example: The bottle service was excellent.
- (verb) To provide assistance or help
- Example: Your vehicle needs serviced.

## 173. Struggle

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To experience difficulty doing something
- Example: Miles and his family are struggling to find a good daycare.
- (noun) An experience in which you face difficulty
- Example: Being here is such a struggle.

## 174. Treasure

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A collection of valuable items
- Example: The pirates of Neverland finally located the buried treasure.
- (verb) To hold something in high regard
- Example: I treasure our time together.

## 175. Torch

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A flashlight or small light source
- Example: He held out a torch in the cave so that they could see.
- (verb) To purposely set on fire
- Example: Rioters torched innocent small businesses.

## 176. Blaze

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A large fire
- Example: The blaze in the field was out of control.
- (verb) To burn intensely
- Example: Fireplaces emit a beautiful, warm blaze in the winter.

## 177. Brew

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To make a drink
- Example: Can you brew a fresh pot of coffee?
- (noun) A drink made by brewing
- Example: There's nothing like freshly brewed tea.

## 178. Command

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) An order to be followed
- Example: He is second in command.
- (verb) To gain control of something
- Example: I command you to be silent.

## 179. Glance

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To look over quickly
- Example: I took a glance at the menu.
- (noun) A quick look over
- Example: They shared a quick glance in the airport.

## 180. Relay

**Verb**

- To pass along a message
- Example: He relayed the news to me.

## 181. Request

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A formal demand
- Example: I will put in a request for your transfer.
- (verb) To ask formally
- Example: Can I make a pizza request?

## 182. Salute

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To give respect to someone
- Example: I saluted the Colonel.
- (noun) An act of respect
- Example: Please give him a salute.

## 183. Span

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A length of time in between
- Example: Over the span of many years, Logan's Spanish has improved.
- (verb) To spread out across a period of time
- Example: Her project time span across several years.

## 184. Tangle

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To get twisted together
- Example: Her hair was tangled from the wind.
- (noun) A twisted mess
- Example: I have a tangle of cords on my desk.

## 185. Voyage

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A journey taken by ship or spacecraft
- Example: Long ago, the Mayflower took its maiden voyage.
- (verb) To take a journey
- Example: Paul voyaged through the desert.

## 186. Glare

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To look at someone angrily
- Example: I don't know why she's glaring at me.
- (noun) An angry look or bright light
- Example: What a menacing glare.

## 187. Increase

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To raise up
- Example: Gas prices have continued to increase this year.
- (noun) A rise in something
- Example: There is a clear increase in people working from home after the Pandemic.

## 188. Remark

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) An opinion or statement
- Example: What a rude remark!
- (verb) To give an opinion or statement
- Example: Stephanie remarked at the surprising difference after the renovation.

## 189. Thrill

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A sudden feeling of happiness
- Example: That rollercoaster was such a thrill!
- (verb) To make someone feel happy
- Example: She was thrilled to make an appearance.

## 190. Balance

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A state in which your weight is equal on all sides
- Example: Ballerinas must have good balance.
- (verb) To distribute your weight evenly
- Example: I am able to balance on one leg for quite a while.

## 191. Beam

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A bright light line; a long piece of wood
- Example: The flashlight emits a long beam of light.
- (verb) To light up with happiness
- Example: He was beaming from ear to ear.

## 192. Figure

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A number dealing with a specific amount
- Example: The figures this month are looking pretty good.
- (verb) To form an opinion
- Example: Did you ever figure out that math problem?

## 193. Wonder

**Verb / Noun / Adjective**

- (verb) To think over in order to make a guess
- Example: I wonder what she's going to do this evening.
- (noun) A feeling of awe
- Example: Christmas time always fills me with wonder.
- (adj) Extremely effective
- Example: We owe her recovery to this wonder drug.

## 194. Duplicate

**Verb / Noun / Adjective**

- (verb) To make an exact copy
- Example: It's hard to duplicate the feeling you get on Christmas morning.
- (noun) An exact copy; replica
- Example: I have a duplicate of my grandma's recipe in her handwriting.
- (adj) Made to be an exact copy
- Example: I need the original, not a duplicate copy.

## 195. Forecast

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A prediction of the future
- Example: Check the weather forecast before you go.
- (verb) To predict future events
- Example: Two inches of snow was forecast for this evening.

## 196. Glimpse

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A quick look not allowing you to see a clear picture
- Example: I only caught a glimpse of the robber before he escaped.
- (verb) To see someone or something for a brief moment
- Example: I glimpsed a raccoon in the garage last night.

## 197. Recruit

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To get new people involved
- Example: We need to recruit some more volunteers.
- (noun) A person that has joined
- Example: Welcome our new recruits.

## 198. Update

**Verb / Noun**

- (verb) To provide the most recent information
- Example: Jamie will be updating us on the road conditions this morning.
- (noun) The most recent piece of information
- Example: I'm waiting to hear an update.

## 199. Experience

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) Obtained knowledge gained from practice
- Example: What an odd experience.
- (verb) To go through something
- Example: I've never experienced a winter day in New York City.

## 200. Catalogue

**Noun / Verb**

- (noun) A list composed of similar items
- Example: Please find me a good furniture catalogue.
- (verb) To make a list of a specific group of items
- Example: Catalogue these foods according to their color.